---
layout: page
title: Research
permalink: /research/
---
As an applied microeconomist, my work involves developing programmable stochastic models that employ very high-resolution data. In particular, I study the behavior of persons in social networks; uncover latent socioeconomic disparities in housing markets; and fuse econometric tools with optimization modeling to better use biomass waste to biopower production. 

The emphasis on high-resolution data coupled with complex, emerging methodologies to manage very local and specific resources in a very targeted way is a common theme of my research. Broadly, my two most competitive skills are the ability to locate very quickly, very high-resolution data that then demand advanced numerical methods to answer these highly nuanced policy questions that also enjoy immediate currency in public discourse. Requests for drafts of working papers are welcome. Please feel free to email me your request.

### Dissertation <br>
My dissertation is organized around three themes. The first examines specific properties of social networks to locate opportunities to fund academic researchers strategically in order to facilitate productivity and network resilience. I use extensive econometric modeling, simulation, and machine learning to examine the productive collaborations of researchers to predict publication output. Using collaboration as the unit of analysis, the analyses determine the expected number of publications, the likelihood that new researchers enter the network through a collaboration, or if an existing researcher will exit. We compare several funding strategies and assess whether network compactness or density contributes to overall topic advancement, in particular, if the most successful strategies exhibit the properties of a small world network. 

The second dissertation paper centers on improving output of a biopower process. I was able to locate hourly data on electricity prices at gins for 12 years and develop a stochastic distribution of electricity prices month by month using Bayesian methods. I conduct operations research to allocate variable gin trash volumes to jointly manage ginning and biopower together over a 9-
month season over 10,000 simulation years. 

The final paper examines the extent to which a persistent, racial property taxation gap exists in Atlanta, GA, even after city leadership shifted to minority control. We use high-resolution demographic and sales price data, downscaling GIS mapping to appropriate scales, to locate neighborhood characteristics within 100 yards of a sale, as well as individual housing characteristics and those of adjacent neighbors. All of these had to be conformed to a uniform scale to provide highly detailed individual outcomes. This reversed a prior finding using much less detailed information that African Americans were under-taxed in Atlanta. 

### Peer-Reviewed Publications <br>
**McGee, Zachary A.** and Sean M. Theriault. 2021. "Partisanship in Congressional Travels Abroad." *International Politics.* Forthcoming. <br><br>
*Members of Congress frequently cite official travels abroad as one of the best opportunities to develop friendships across the aisle. Yet since 1977, representatives spent roughly one of every eight days with members of only their political party. Some members have spent more than a month's worth of time in a single congress traveling and never doing so with a member from the other party. This paper examines the causes and consequences of the members who are willing to travel overseas so long as it is not with a member of the other party. We find that liberal Democrats are more likely than moderate Democrats to travel with their copartisans, and moderate Democrats are more likely than liberals to travel abroad in cross-party delegations. For Republicans, the former relationship holds, though we uncover no relationship for the latter. Taken together, these results suggest that ideological extremism and partisan warfare is tearing at the norms surrounding congressional travel abroad, which is perhaps the last and best opportunity for members to form relationships across the aisle.*<br>

**McGee, Zachary A.** and Philip R. Moniz. 2021. "Gift Travel in the U.S. House of Representatives." *Political Research Quarterly.* DOI: [10.1177/10659129211020830](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/10659129211020830) [Replication.](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/TM8V2K) [Click here to read a copy.](/publications/McGee_Moniz_2021_PRQ.pdf) <br><br>
*Members of Congress take more than 2,000 trips sponsored by private organizations and interest groups every congress. Using a new data set of gift travel from 2007 to 2019 and interviews with former members of Congress, current and former congressional staffers, and staffers from interest groups that fund trips, we attempt to answer two core questions about this increasingly frequent behavior. Why do members take privately sponsored trips and what types of groups are driving this behavior? We argue that members of Congress take trips because they believe it makes them more effective legislators by exposing them to real-world consequences of their policy decisions and forcing them to build relationships with their fellow members. Trip sponsors, alternatively, seek to persuade and build relationships with members of Congress that ultimately shape their legislative coalitions. We find that trip-taking is associated with greater legislative effectiveness, in particular for Democrats, and that the provision of policy-specific information is a valuable benefit from taking these trips.*<br>

Fagan, E.J. and **Zachary A. McGee**. 2020. "Problem Solving and the Demand for Expert Information in Congress." *Legislative Studies Quarterly.* DOI: [10.1111/lsq.12323](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/lsq.12323) [Replication.](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/PAWMSP) [Click here to read a copy.](/publications/Fagan_McGee_2020_LSQ.pdf) <br><br>
*This article examines the relationship between demand for expert information from members of the US Congress and increased issue salience in the public. As problems become salient, policymakers should seek out expert information to define problems and identify effective policy solutions to address those problems. Previous work on elite mass public representation and government problem solving has relied on public actions by elected officials to evaluate this relationship. We rely instead on new data on the policy content of privately requested reports from the Congressional Research Service (CRS) from 1997 to 2017. We find strong evidence that members consult experts when issues become salient, even when controlling for legislative agendas.*<br>

Fagan, E.J., **Zachary A. McGee**, and Herschel F. Thomas III. 2019. "The Power of the Party: Conflict Expansion and the Agenda Diversity of Interest Groups." *Political Research Quarterly.* DOI: [10.1177/1065912919867142](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1065912919867142) [Replication.](/replication/fagan_mcgee_thomas_prq19.zip) [Click here to read a copy.](/publications/FMT_2019_PRQ.pdf) <br><br>
*To what extent do political parties have an effect on the policy-related activity of interest groups? Drawing from ideas of conflict expansion and the structure of extended party networks, we argue that political parties are able to pull interest groups into more policy conflicts than they otherwise would be involved in. We posit that parties are able to draw interest groups to be active outside of established issue niches. We suggest that several mechanisms—shared partisan electoral incentives, reciprocity, identification with the means, and cue-taking behavior—lead groups to participate in more diverse political conflicts. By linking data on interest group bill positions and the policy content of legislation, we generate a novel measure of 158 interest groups’ alignment with political parties. We find that the more an interest group is ideologically aligned with a political party, the more diverse their issue agenda becomes.*<br>

**McGee, Zachary A.** and Bryan D. Jones. 2019. “Reconceptualizing the Policy Subsystem: Integration with Complexity Theory and Social Network Analysis.” *Policy Studies Journal.* 7(S1): S138–58. [DOI: 10.1111/psj.12319](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/psj.12319) [Click here to read a copy.](/publications/McGee_Jones_2019_PSJ.pdf) <br><br>
*The concept of the policy subsystem is an essential building block for several of the basic frameworks of policy process studies. Over time issues have become more complex, crossing subsystem boundaries, and so subsystems have escalated in their complexity as well. It is increasingly insufficient to study just one policy subsystem and so scholars have turned to studying boundary‐spanning regimes or policy networks. In this essay, we review the major contributions to developing the concept of a policy subsystem and trace its evolution into broader conceptualizations like issue and policy networks. We argue that the future for theories of the policy process is in more explicit integration of complexity theory and more effective modeling of subsystems with the utilization of social network analysis. In closing, we discuss the enduring nature of the concept of policy subsystems and highlight studies that continue using it in innovative ways.*

### Chapters in Edited Volumes <br>
Each of these chapters takes a different view of how conceptualizing individual decision-making as a boundedly rational, instead of comprehensively rational, process impacts our understanding of political agenda setting. Each chapter builds on the robust literature in public policy that is established explicitly on this approach. These chapters represent my approach to agenda setting in other research I have conducted and will continue to address.<br>

**McGee, Zachary  A.**, Brooke N. Shannon, and Bryan D. Jones. 2021. “Bounded Rationality in Political Science.” In Routledge Handbook on Bounded Rationality, eds. Riccardo Viale and Konstantinos Katzikopoulos. New York: Routledge. [DOI: 10.4324/9781315658353](https://www.taylorfrancis.com/books/edit/10.4324/9781315658353/routledge-handbook-bounded-rationality-riccardo-viale)<br>

Shannon, Brooke N., **Zachary  A.  McGee**, and Bryan D. Jones. 2019. “Bounded Rationality and Cognitive Limits in Political Decision Making.” In *Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Politics*. New York: Oxford University Press. [DOI: 10.1093/acrefore/9780190228637.013.961](https://oxfordre.com/politics/view/10.1093/acrefore/9780190228637.001.0001/acrefore-9780190228637-e-961)<br>

Jones, Bryan D. and **Zachary A. McGee**. 2018. “Agenda Setting and Bounded Rationality.” In *The Oxford Handbook of Behavioral Political Science.* eds. Alex Mintz and Lesley Terris. Oxford: Oxford University Press.[DOI: 10.1093/oxfordhb/9780190634131.013.19](http://www.oxfordhandbooks.com/view/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780190634131.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780190634131-e-19)<br><br>

### Working Papers <br>
A New Judicial Nominations Process: The Impact of Senate Procedural Reforms and the Federalist Society on the Confirmation Prospects of Judicial Nominees (with Christine C. Bird) *(Revise and Resubmit)*<br>
Predicting Intraparty Faction Membership Decisions in the U.S. House of Representatives *(In Progress)*<br>
Congressional Distribution of Power and the Reach of the Federal Government, 1865-1946 (with Derek A. Epp and Sean M. Theriault) *(In Progress)*<br>
The Voting Behavior of the Federalist Society Senators in Federal Judicial Nominations (with Christine C. Bird and Jonathan M. King) *(In Progress)*<br>
Differential Electoral Coordination of House Republican Intraparty Organizations *(In Progress)*
